---
title: The Centurion
subtitle: Anonymous
html_title_sep: "("
---

### In the Gospels

#### Matthew 8:5-13

When he came into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him, and saying,
Lord, my servant lies in the house paralyzed, grievously tormented.

Jesus said to him, I will come and heal him.

The centurion answered, <u class="blue">Lord, I’m not worthy for you to come
under my roof. Just say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I am also
a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, Go, and
he goes, and tell another, Come, and he comes, and tell my servant, Do this,
and he does it.</u>

When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, <u>Most
certainly I tell you, I haven’t found so great a faith, not even in Israel. I
tell you that many will come from the east and the west, and will sit down with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven, but the children of the
Kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and
gnashing of teeth.</u> Jesus said to the centurion, <u>Go your way. Let it be
done for you as you have believed.</u> His servant was healed in that hour.

#### Luke 7:1-10

After he had finished speaking in the hearing of the people, he entered into
Capernaum. A certain centurion’s servant, who was dear to him, was sick and at
the point of death. When he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the
Jews, asking him to come and save his servant. When they came to Jesus, they
begged him earnestly, saying, He is worthy for you to do this for him, for he
loves our nation, and he built our synagogue for us. Jesus went with them. When
he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to
him, <u class="blue">Lord, don’t trouble yourself, for I am not worthy for you
to come under my roof. Therefore I didn’t even think myself worthy to come to
you, but say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I also am a man
placed under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, Go! and
he goes, and to another, Come! and he comes, and to my servant, Do this, and he
does it.</u>

When Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turned and said to the
multitude who followed him, <u>I tell you, I have not found such great faith,
no, not in Israel.</u> Those who were sent, returning to the house, found that
the servant who had been sick was well.

#### John 4:46b-53

There was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard
that Jesus had come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him, and begged him
that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
Jesus therefore said to him, Unless you see signs and wonders, you will in no
way believe.

The nobleman said to him, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus said to
him, Go your way. Your son lives. The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to
him, and he went his way. As he was now going down, his servants met him and
reported, saying Your child lives! So he inquired of them the hour when he
began to get better. They said therefore to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour,
the fever left him. So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus
said to him, Your son lives. He believed, as did his whole house.
