---
heading: St. Bartimaeus
subheading: the blind beggar
html_title_sep: ","
---


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 10:46-52

They came to Jericho. As he went out from Jericho, with his disciples and a
great multitude, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, was sitting by
the road. When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out,
and say, <u>Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!</u> Many rebuked him,
that he should be quiet, but he cried out much more, <u>You son of David, have
mercy on me!</u>

Jesus stood still, and said, Call him.

They called the blind man, saying to him, Cheer up! Get up. He is calling you!

He, casting away his cloak, sprang up, and came to Jesus.

Jesus asked him, What do you want me to do for you?

The blind man said to him, <u>Rabboni, that I may see again.</u>

Jesus said to him, **Go your way. Your faith has made you well.**

Immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.


##### Matthew 20:29-34

As they went out from Jericho, a great multitude followed him. Behold, two
blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried
out, <u>Lord, have mercy on us, you son of David!</u> The multitude rebuked
them, telling them that they should be quiet, but they cried out even more,
<u>Lord, have mercy on us, you son of David!</u>

Jesus stood still, and called them, and asked, What do you want me to do for
you?

They told him, <u>Lord, that our eyes may be opened.</u>

Jesus, being moved with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediately their
eyes received their sight, and they followed him.


##### Luke 18:35-43

It happened, as he came near Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the road,
begging. Hearing a multitude going by, he asked what this meant. They told him
that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by. He cried out, <u>Jesus, you son of
David, have mercy on me!</u> Those who led the way rebuked him, that he should
be quiet, but he cried out all the more, <u>You son of David, have mercy on
me!</u>

Standing still, Jesus commanded him to be brought to him. When he had come
near, he asked him, What do you want me to do?

He said, <u>Lord, that I may see again.</u>

Jesus said to him, **Receive your sight. Your faith has healed you.**

Immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God. All the
people, when they saw it, praised God.
