---
heading: St. Mary of Bethany
subheading: The Twice-Praised
html_title_sep: ","
image: /the-twelve-faithful-servants/st-mary-of-bethany/st-mary-of-bethany.thumb.jpg
image_alt: an icon of St. Mary of Bethany
---

<a href="st-mary-of-bethany.jpg">
  <img src="st-mary-of-bethany.small.jpg" alt="St. Mary of Bethany, the twice-praised">
</a>
<div class="caption">From the hand of <a
href="https://www.xamist.com/">Federico Aguirre</a>.</div>


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 14:3-9

While he was at Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at the
table, <u class="blue">a woman came having an alabaster jar of ointment of pure
nard—very costly. She broke the jar, and poured it over his head.</u> But there
were some who were indignant among themselves, saying, Why has this ointment
been wasted?  For this might have been sold for more than three hundred
denarii, and given to the poor. They grumbled against her.

But Jesus said, <u>Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good
work for me. For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want to,
you can do them good, but you will not always have me. She has done what she
could. She has anointed my body beforehand for the burying. Most certainly I
tell you, wherever this Good News may be preached throughout the whole world,
that which this woman has done will also be spoken of for a memorial of
her.</u>


##### Matthew 26:6-13

Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, <u
class="blue">a woman came to him having an alabaster jar of very expensive
ointment, and she poured it on his head as he sat at the table.</u> But when
his disciples saw this, they were indignant, saying, Why this waste? For this
ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor.

However, knowing this, Jesus said to them, <u>Why do you trouble the woman?
Because she has done a good work for me. For you always have the poor with you,
but you don’t always have me. For in pouring this ointment on my body, she did
it to prepare me for burial. Most certainly I tell you, wherever this Good News
is preached in the whole world, what this woman has done will also be spoken of
as a memorial of her.</u>


##### John 12:1-8

Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was,
who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. So they made him a supper
there. Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with
him. <u class="blue">Mary, therefore, took a pound of ointment of pure nard,
very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her
hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment.</u> Then Judas
Iscariot, Simon’s son, one of his disciples, who would betray him, said, Why
wasn’t this ointment sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor? Now
he said this, not because he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief,
and having the money box, used to steal what was put into it. But Jesus said,
<u>Leave her alone.  She has kept this for the day of my burial. For you always
have the poor with you, but you don’t always have me.</u>

----

##### Luke 10:38-42

It happened as they went on their way, he entered into a certain village, and a
certain woman named Martha received him into her house. <u class="blue">She had
a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus’ feet, and heard his word.</u> But
Martha was distracted with much serving, and she came up to him, and said,
Lord, don’t you care that my sister left me to serve alone? Ask her therefore
to help me.

Jesus answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many
things, but one thing is needed. <u>Mary has chosen the good part, which will
not be taken away from her.</u>
