---
heading: St. Veronica
subheading: The Woman with a Flow of Blood
html_title_sep: ","
---


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 5:25-34

A certain woman, who had an issue of blood for twelve years, and had suffered
many things by many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no
better, but rather grew worse, having heard the things concerning Jesus, came
up behind him in the crowd, and touched his clothes. For she said, <u
class="blue">If I just touch his clothes, I will be made well.</u> Immediately
the flow of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was
healed of her affliction.

Immediately Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power had gone out from him,
turned around in the crowd, and asked, Who touched my clothes?

His disciples said to him, You see the multitude pressing against you, and you
say, Who touched me?

He looked around to see her who had done this thing. But the woman, fearing and
trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him,
and told him all the truth.

He said to her, <u>Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be
cured of your disease.</u>


##### Matthew 9:20-22

Behold, a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years came behind him, and
touched the fringe of his garment, for she said within herself, <u
class="blue">If I just touch his garment, I will be made well.</u>

But Jesus, turning around and seeing her, said, <u>Daughter, cheer up! Your
faith has made you well.</u> And the woman was made well from that hour.


##### Luke 8:42-48

But as he went, the multitudes pressed against him. A woman who had a flow of
blood for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians, and could
not be healed by any, came behind him, and touched the fringe of his cloak, and
immediately the flow of her blood stopped. Jesus said, Who touched me?

When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, Master, the multitudes press
and jostle you, and you say, Who touched me?

But Jesus said, Someone did touch me, for I perceived that power has gone out
of me. When the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and
falling down before him declared to him in the presence of all the people the
reason why she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. He said to
her, <u>Daughter, cheer up. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace.</u>
