---
heading: Well done, O Christ!
subheading: Praying with St. John of Damascus
image: /well-done-o-christ/og.jpg
image_alt: the beginning of a paragraph in a book, "Well done, O Christ!"
---

<a href="well-done-o-christ.jpg">
  <img src="well-done-o-christ.small.jpg">
</a>
<div class="caption">"Well done, O Christ!" as I discovered it.</div>

#### The Story of a Prayer

St. John of Damascus published a book called <i>The Fount of Knowledge</i> in
about 750 A.D. It is the crown of the early Fathers, summing up the exposition
and teaching in the centuries after Christ’s first coming, the time of the
Ecumenical Councils.

The book has three parts: on philosophy, on heresy, and on the Orthodox faith.
The third part sets forth the two great dogmas of the Church—the Trinity and
the Incarnation—and then walks through our fall and redemption, and the
flowering of the Church.

The crescendo of the third part is a stunning declaration of the victory of
Christ within our one shared human history and civilization. The Gospel _has_
been preached, idols _have_ been torn down, virtue _has_ been established, and
not through force of arms but by the persuasiveness of unlettered fishermen.
The Damascene writes near Jerusalem when iconoclasm has infiltrated the Church,
and Islam has conquered the Holy Land. Yet he can still celebrate the reality
of Christ’s impact. He bursts into prayer!

<div style="padding: 24pt; font-size: 13pt; line-height: 19pt;"><b>Well done, O
Christ</b>, O Wisdom, and Power, and Word of God, and God Almighty! What should
we resourceless people give Thee in return for all things? For all things are
Thine, and Thou askest nothing of us but that we be saved. Even this Thou hast
given us, and by Thy ineffable goodness Thou art grateful to those who accept
it. Thanks be to Thee Who hast given being and the grace of well-being, and Who
by Thy ineffable Condescension hast brought back to this state those who fell
from it.</div>

This prayer—the only prayer in the entire <i>Fount of Knowledge</i>—is the
crown of the crown of the crown of the crown of the crown of the early Fathers.

<div style="padding: 24pt;">
 <div style="padding-left: 40%; padding-bottom: 6pt;"><b>Well done, O Christ!</b></div>
 <div style="padding-left: 35%; padding-bottom: 6pt;">Worship of demons <em>has</em> ceased.</div>
 <div style="padding-left: 30%; padding-bottom: 6pt;">Book IV: After His Resurrection</div>
 <div style="padding-left: 25%; padding-bottom: 6pt;">Part III: On the Orthodox Faith</div>
 <div style="padding-left: 20%; padding-bottom: 6pt;"><i>Fount of Knowledge</i></div>
 <div style="padding-left: 15%; padding-bottom: 6pt;">Early Fathers — Ecumenical Councils</div>
</div>

This is our effusive response to Christ’s real victory in our actual world, the
pinnacle of Faith reached by ascending from the assessment of all true
philosophy through the refutation of all heresy. This ascent is compiled,
collated, and filtered from all of the earliest Church Fathers from the
Apostles down to the eve of the Seventh Ecumenical Council, by our father among
the saints John of Damascus. In that Council he contributed materially (from
glory) to the eventual Triumph of Orthodoxy. The Kingdom of God is not yet, yet
it is already, in our material world, in our midst. 

One of the wonders of this prayer is its laying bare of two parodoxical
realities: God's Grace and our free will. We are "resourceless." Christ gives
us "all things," including our very "being and the grace of well-being." Even
what Christ asks of us, the one and only thing—"that we be saved"—He gives us.
The _only_ thing that lies with us is whether we "accept" His gift. Our initial
conversion, and each subsequent moment of repentance and return, is in our
hands. Yet every moment leading up to our moments of repentance, and every
moment leading forth, are Christ's. Our repentence is almost, we might say, a
single point, without dimension or content. Christ is wholly active in bringing
us to salvation, and wholly active in carrying us forward from it. Our bare,
stark acceptance is all that is in our hands—simultaneously everything for us,
and yet so close to nothing.  Wonderously, Christ is _grateful_ to us for our
utterly passive acceptance, for our nearly-nothing! Glory to Him!

O Christ our God, lead us to repentance. Give us Grace to accept. Smash the
idols in our life, in our households and neighborhoods, our cities and nations!
St. John of Damascus, pray for us!


#### Praying with St. John

Surely this prayer is suitable to include in one's private devotions. How else
might it be incorporated into the life of the Church?


#### A Note on Translations

The standard translation of <i>The Fount of Knowledge</i> has been
[Chase's](https://www.cuapress.org/9780813209685/writings/), and this is the
version quoted above (p. 339). SVS Press recently published a new translation
by
[Russell](https://svspress.com/on-the-orthodox-faith-volume-3-of-the-fount-of-knowledge-pps-62/),
but his rendering of this prayer is not as poetic.


#### Timeline

**2022-01-02**&mdash;I published this page.  
**2020-08-02**&ndash;**2020-11-05**&mdash;I read <i>The Fount of Knowledge</i> with an online book group, in the course of which I discovered this prayer.
