---
layout: post
heading: "Reading, Together, Again"
excerpt: "The Gospels is back in print and ready for your next study group."
byline: by Chad Whitacre
is_published: yes
---

<a href="/the-gospels/">The Gospels</a> is an edition of the four canonical
Gospels designed for both individual reading and group study. Out of print for
five years, it is now available once again, [at
Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/098515490X/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=098515490X&linkCode=as2&tag=gd-ws-2-20&linkId=112c6d2f38a766669ba38a74aaaf1ee2).

On his [Bible Design
Blog](https://www.bibledesignblog.com/blog/2011/08/the-gospels-edited-by-chad-whitacre.html),
J. Mark Bertrand called this, "a splendid edition of the gospels based on a
sound design philosophy." The translation is the [World English
Bible](https://worldenglish.bible/), a modern, literal translation derived from
the American Standard Version (and placed in the public domain).

---

[![page](/the-gospels/page.gif)](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/098515490X/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=098515490X&linkCode=as2&tag=gd-ws-2-20&linkId=112c6d2f38a766669ba38a74aaaf1ee2)

---

<em>The Gospels</em> was born out of experience leading small groups for new
and under-catechized believers. Western culture is increasingly post-literate,
and the whole Bible is a lot to take in. Yet Christianity is inescapably
grounded in Scripture; the movie version can never tell the whole story.
Setting the Gospels apart can be a pastorally sensitive way to enable
individuals to directly encounter the Word of God in the Word of God. Within a
parish community, the encounter with Jesus in the Gospels can lead naturally
into the Acts of the Apostles, the New and Old Testaments, and the full
tradition and life of the Churchâ€”including, where appropriate, the movie version.

In addition to the print version [at
Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/098515490X/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=098515490X&linkCode=as2&tag=gd-ws-2-20&linkId=112c6d2f38a766669ba38a74aaaf1ee2), <em>The
Gospels</em> is also available as a PDF [at
Gumroad](https://gumroad.com/l/the-gospels).  Pick up a copy for yourself, and
consider leading a reading group at your local church to help people directly
encounter Jesus in the Gospels. [Let me know](/about/#contact) how it goes!
