---
layout: post
heading: "First Event on July 29"
excerpt: "The first Gospel Desk event will be live-streamed from Grace Edgeworth tomorrow evening."
is_published: yes
---

On Wednesday, July 29 from 7:00 to 8:30 PM (US/Eastern), Lord willing, I will
be speaking at [Grace Edgeworth](https://www.edgeworthanglican.com/), sharing
about the [Twelve Believers](https://www.gospeldesk.org/the-twelve-believers/)
and Gospel Desk in general. If you'd like to attend in person, please RSVP via
email to [Fr.  Chance Perdue](mailto:chance@edgeworthanglican.com). The event
will also be live-streamed on [the parish's YouTube
channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCI-PG998Cfc9Gpq6XXgd2Zw).  There's no
need to register for the live-stream, just click the link shortly before 7:00.

The purpose of Gospel Desk is to build faith in our day, by deeply engaging
with the Gospels together. What I envision is high-quality content, both
liturgical and pedagogical, that unearths the treasure hidden in the field of
the Gospels, for an ecumenical community of people using these new tools to
strengthen their own faith and share it with others. Success for Gospel Desk
looks like Christians energized with the Spirit of God, and new converts
believing that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, joining parishes where they
may have life in his name.

Since starting Gospel Desk last October, I have been focused on setting up a
website and email list, and on laying the groundwork for some longer-term
publishing projects. My prayer with this first pilot event on July 29 is that
God will start to bring together a community of people who share the vision of
Gospel Desk and are ready to work together to achieve it. If you are
interested, please join me on July 29. And please pray for me, a sinner.
