---
layout: post
heading: Working on a Building
excerpt: "Gospel Desk has a place in the world, at 981 Crescent Avenue, on Spring Hill in Sewickley, Pennsylvania."
is_published: yes
suppress_subscribe: no
---

God became incarnate in Jesus Christ, and so it seems right to me that Gospel
Desk should also be incarnate—not just a social media brand, but a *place* for
*people*.

Last year, God blessed our family with a remarkable property on the edge of
Sewickley, Pennsylvania, on a hill called Spring Hill. The property is in two
parcels, each with a house on it. Our family lives at 980 Crescent Avenue. Lord
willing, 981 will become the Gospel Desk Retreat House.

---

[![Gospel Desk HQ](../gospel-desk-hq.small.jpg)](../gospel-desk-hq.jpg)
<div class="caption">The Gospel Desk Retreat House is ripe with potential.</div>

#### Perched Between Village and Forest 

Compared to the internal, private sphere of our family's home next door, the
Gospel Desk Retreat House at 981 Crescent represents the external and the
public—the published, even (here we are). But that's just the beginning of its
symbolic meaning.

Down the valley through the trees you can spy the Methodists' clock tower at
the center of the village. Rising behind us is a hundred-acre wood.  Gospel
Desk symbolically occupies the boundary between civilization and wild, known
and unknown, order and chaos, structure and freedom, conformity and
individuality, unity and multiplicity. It is a threshold, a portal, a gateway.

Yet despite its proximity to the village, the property is difficult to get to.
Crescent Avenue is not terribly long, but it is narrow, winding, and sliding
down the hill, taking some houses with it. The Gospel Desk Retreat House is at
the end. The property has a feeling of isolation, almost otherworldliness. It's
a bit of a monastery in the sky.

The building itself has not been lived in for decades. There are no utility
lines left, let alone active service. When we took ownership (stewardship, I
prefer), three fully rusted acetylene tanks(!) occupied the porch. Junk filled
the upstairs and downright rubble the downstairs. I shoveled out 50 bags of
former plaster and about as much dryrotten flooring to reveal a clean crack in
the foundation that explains the back wall's unsettling lean. It's not actually
clear to what extent the building can be saved. The detached garage *did*
collapse, long ago, and now cat litter and yard waste fill the spot. Here,
then, is another aspect of Gospel Desk's meaning: [I'm working on a
building](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/I%27m_Working_on_a_Building)!

---

{% include youtube.html video_id="ZEQgL85tpkU" %}


#### Head, Heart, and Hospitality

In the opening chapter of *The Abolition of Man*, C.S. Lewis summarizes an
ancient anthropology: "The head rules the belly through the chest." I see in
this a pattern for what the Gospel Desk Retreat House can become, if the Lord
wills it: a library and a chapel upstairs, living quarters downstairs. Maybe
some day you will join us here for a retreat, enjoying this special spot with
us, studying and meditating on the Gospels, and drawing closer to God.

---

{% include youtube.html video_id="WDqFACzbN3w" %}
