---
title: Welcome to Gospel Desk
excerpt: Gospel Desk is an Orthodox Christian blog by Chad Whitacre.
image: /2024/welcome-to-gospel-desk/social.webp
---

Greetings! Welcome to Gospel Desk. My purpose with this blog is to participate
in the life of the Orthodox Church. I look forward to sharing observations from
the Gospels, the wider Scriptures, and the Fathers. I hope to further the Great
Commission. Perhaps I will engage with contemporary issues, though that is not
my primary interest. This introductory post offers a sketch of my background
and my hopes for this blog.

### A Brief Biography

<div><a href="/about/chadwhitacre.jpg"><img src="/about/chadwhitacre.small.jpg"
style="float: left; margin: 0 16pt 16pt 0; width: 33%;"></a></div>

My name is Chad Whitacre. I am an Orthodox Christian, a member of [St.
Nicholas, McKees Rocks](https://orthodoxpittsburgh.org/), a vibrant parish of
the [Orthodox Church in America](https://www.oca.org/) under His Eminence,
[Archbishop Melchisidek](https://www.ocadwpa.org/ourbishop). My father, [Rod
Whitacre](https://singinghome.com/), was an Anglican priest and [New Testament
scholar](https://whitacregreek.com/) with Orthodox sympathies. Though baptized
and raised an Anglican, my dad made sure I knew he had given me a pre-Schism
saint‚Äôs name in case I ever needed it. [I cashed it
in](https://www.ancientfaith.com/podcasts/aftodaylive/the_ups_and_downs_of_the_journey_to_orthodox_christianity)
after 43 years, chrismated by the grace of God on February 20, 2022 by [Fr. Tom
Soroka](https://www.ancientfaith.com/contributors/tom_soroka), with [St.
Chad](https://orthochristian.com/101836.html) as my patron and [Dr. Edith
Humphrey](https://edithmhumphrey.com/) as one of my two godparents. Glory to
Jesus Christ!

In fact, the Domesday book of 1086 mentions one of ‚Äú[the
Whitacres](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nether_Whitacre),‚Äù a group of villages
which likely lay in the Diocese of Mercia when St. Chad founded its cathedral
at Lichfield in 669. How fun to suppose my ancestors were also under my patron!
St. Chad, pray for us!

For my part, I started out in my dad‚Äôs footsteps, studying Ancient Languages
(Greek and Hebrew) and Theology at Wheaton College. It's hard to support a
family reading Greek, however, and I also inherited a technical bent from my
mother, a math and science teacher, so I embarked on [a self-taught career in
software](https://chadwhitacre.com/), particularly Open Source. I do love to
read and write theology, though, and I do love the Church. Gospel Desk is an
outlet for that.

### The Role of Gospel Desk in My Conversion

Studying the Gospels was an important part of my conversion to Orthodoxy. I
want to worship and follow the God I find there, to inhabit the world they
present, and to participate in the community they point to, i.e., the Church.

I almost converted to Orthodoxy in college, in about 1998, but stuck with
Protestantism. In time, I asked the question: what does a good defense before
the dread judgement seat of Christ look like? I sought an answer in the
Gospels. For we find there stories of individuals encountering Christ, and each
such meeting is a judgement. The Centurion had faith not found in all Israel,
while the Rich Young Ruler went away sad. In 2008, I determined that St. Justa,
the Canaanite Woman, is the person most successful in surviving the encounter.
I called her the ‚Äúwinner‚Äù of the Gospels. In 2018, I further discovered that
there are exactly twelve individuals whom Christ explicitly praises for their
faith in the Gospels. Imagine! Exactly twelve! Twelve Tribes of Israel, Twelve
Minor Prophets, Twelve Apostles, Twelve Great Feasts ... and now Twelve
Faithful Servants!?

This felt worth sharing. I had already published [an edition of the
Gospels](/the-gospels/) back in 2010, and I thought I would start a website to
promote that and offer this vision of the [Twelve Faithful
Servants](/the-twelve-faithful-servants/). I settled on the name Gospel Desk to
reflect my love of purposeful study, centered on the Gospels.

But with whom to share? Not the academy, largely aloof from faith when not
outright antagonistic. Not a general American Christian audience, which might
perhaps have found interest in a book of devotional meditations, but whose
interest would quickly wane. I wanted to bring this gift‚Äîif it be a genuine
gift‚Äîto the Church, and though I was Anglican, I knew it was the Orthodox
Church whose acceptance mattered. I decided to commission icons.

Eventually, I consulted with Andrew Gould of the [Orthodox Arts
Journal](https://orthodoxartsjournal.org/), thinking to present the Twelve
Faithful Servants to the Orthodox Church from my position as an Anglican. At
one point, he off-handedly remarked that what I had undertaken was ‚Äújust an
Anglican art project,‚Äù that these were ‚Äúnot truly liturgical objects.‚Äù It‚Äôs not
wholly false to say that I converted to Orthodoxy to prove Andrew wrong. Thanks
be to God!

### Gospel Desk Today and Tomorrow

Today is two years since my chrismation. Having studied the Gospels for decades
as an Anglican, it has been wonderful to begin to fully <u>inhabit</u> the
Gospel in the Church, to explore the foothills of the ‚Äúbutter mountain,‚Äù to
acquire in small and growing measure the mind of the Fathers through study,
sacraments, and struggle in the desert of my heart.

By the grace of God, six icons are now complete and in rotation at my parish.
The longing I began feeling six years ago to bring the Twelve Faithful Servants
to the awareness of the Church is coming to fruition. My priest is
[acknowledging them from the
ambon](https://www.facebook.com/watch/live/?ref=watch_permalink&v=1021074838986786&t=7401).
My fellow parishioners are [venerating their
icons](https://www.facebook.com/watch/live/?ref=watch_permalink&v=1021074838986786&t=7790).
They are beginning to be seen for us as great witnesses to faith in Christ.

---

<a href="./tetrapod.webp"><img src="./tetrapod.webp"></a>

<div class="caption"><a href="/the-twelve-faithful-servants/st-zacchaeus/">St.
Zacchaeus's icon</a> is ready to go for this past <a
href="https://www.oca.org/saints/lives/2024/02/18/1-sunday-of-zacchaeus">Zacchaeus
Sunday</a>.</div>

---

God willing, with the blessing and guidance of my bishop, my priest, my
godparents, and the Faithful Servants themselves, I am ready to engage a wider
audience, to participate more fully in the life of the Orthodox Church both
within and beyond my parish.

The [Twelve Faithful Servants](/the-twelve-faithful-servants/) are one
offering, but there are others. I republished my edition of [_The
Gospels_](/the-gospels), and I followed it up with [a mobile app](/app/). That
has put me in touch with [Brian Glass](https://parochianus.blog/) of
[Orthocal.info](https://orthocal.info/), a project to which I hope to
contribute. I am working through a patristics reading plan, which I aim to say
more about in [a future
post](https://github.com/gospeldesk/www.gospeldesk.org/issues/29). I already
have one additional discovery to share, a prayer of St. John of Damascus. More
on that, perhaps, in [another future
post](https://github.com/gospeldesk/www.gospeldesk.org/issues/31).

I hope what I write will build up the Church. As I indicated, I am not here for
an academic exercise. I want to study with due rigor, yet I want my reading and
writing to be a gift I receive from, and offer back to, God and His Church‚Äînot
because you or God need my amateur scholarship, but because I find a talent in
my hand, and I want to make the most of it. ‚Äú[I]t is the conscience of the
offerer that sanctifies the sacrifice when it is pure, and thus moves God to
accept the offering as from a friend‚Äù (St. Irenaeus, _Against Heresies_,
4.16.4). May God in His mercy grant me a pure conscience that I might make
ready an acceptable offering.

I am motivated by the Great Commission. I am encouraged by my bishop, my
priest, my godparents, and my friends. I trust that God will prosper what is
worthwhile in my efforts, and what is unworthy will be corrected or forgotten.
I welcome your [feedback](mailto:chad@zetaweb.com), and I thank you for
reading.

Glory to Jesus Christ! ‚ò¶Ô∏è üíÉ
