---
title: Welcome to Gospel Desk
excerpt: Gospel Desk is an Orthodox Christian publishing project
layout: post
---

Greetings! Welcome to Gospel Desk. The purpose of Gospel Desk is to participate
in the life of the Orthodox Church, contributing to the Great Commission
through study of the Gospels, the wider Scriptures, and the Fathers. In this
introductory post I aim to give you a little background on myself, and sketch
the big picture for the direction of this project.

#### My Background 

[headshot]

My name is Chad Whitacre. I am an Orthodox Christian, a member of [St.
Nicholas, McKees Rocks](https://orthodoxpittsburgh.org/), a vibrant parish of
the [Orthodox Church in America](https://www.oca.org/) under His Eminence,
[Archbishop Melchisidek](https://www.ocadwpa.org/ourbishop). I was baptized and
raised an Anglican, but growing up, [my dad](https://singinghome.com/) (a
priest and [New Testament scholar](https://whitacregreek.com/)) always told me
he had given me a pre-Schism saint’s name in case I ever needed it. [I cashed
it
in](https://www.ancientfaith.com/podcasts/aftodaylive/the_ups_and_downs_of_the_journey_to_orthodox_christianity)
after 43 years, chrismated by the grace of God on February 20, 2022 by [Fr. Tom
Soroka](https://www.ancientfaith.com/contributors/tom_soroka), with [St.
Chad](https://orthochristian.com/101836.html) as my patron and [Dr. Edith
Humphrey](https://edithmhumphrey.com/) as one of my two godparents. Glory to
Jesus Christ!

(Incidentally, the Domesday book of 1086 mentions one of “[the
Whitacres](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nether_Whitacre),” which would likely
have lain in the Diocese of Mercia when its cathedral was founded at Lichfield
by St. Chad in 669. How fun to speculate that my patron was my ancestors’
bishop. St. Chad, pray for us!)

I started out in my dad’s footsteps, studying Ancient Languages (Greek and
Hebrew) and Theology at Wheaton College. No-one pays you to read Greek without
a Ph.D., however, and I also inherited a technical bent from my mother, a math
and science teacher. I embarked on [a career in
software](https://chadwhitacre.com/), particularly in Open Source. I do love to
read and write theology, though, and Gospel Desk is an outlet for that.

#### Why Gospel Desk?

Studying the Gospels was an important part of my journey to Orthodoxy. I want
to worship and follow the God I find there, to inhabit the world they present,
and to participate in the community they point to, i.e., the Church.

I almost converted to Orthodoxy in college, in about 1998, but stuck with
Protestantism. In time, I asked the question: what does a good defense before
the dread judgement seat of Christ look like? I sought an answer in the
Gospels. For we find there stories of individuals encountering Christ, and each
such meeting is a judgement. The Centurion had faith not found in all Israel,
while the Rich Young Ruler went away sad. In 2008, I determined that St. Justa,
the Canaanite Woman, is the person most successful in surviving the encounter.
I called her the “winner” of the Gospels. In 2018, I further discovered that
there are exactly twelve individuals whom Christ explicitly praises for their
faith in the Gospels. Imagine! Exactly twelve! This felt worth sharing.

I had already published an edition of the Gospels back in 2010, and I thought
that I would start a website to promote that, as well as offer this vision of
the Twelve Faithful Servants (as I call them). I settled on the name Gospel
Desk to reflect my love of purposeful study, centered on the Gospels.

However, I didn’t want to publish an academic paper about the Twelve Faithful
Servants, nor even a book of devotional meditations. I wanted to do something
more. I decided to commission icons. Eventually, I consulted with Andrew Gould
of the [Orthodox Arts Journal](https://orthodoxartsjournal.org/). At one point,
he off-handedly remarked that what I had undertaken was “just an Anglican art
project,” that these were “not truly liturgical objects.” It’s not wholly false
to say that I converted to Orthodoxy to prove Andrew wrong. Thanks be to God!

[img]

Today, by the grace of God, six icons are completed and in rotation at my
parish. I am coming up on two years since chrismation (after a year of
catechesis). With the blessing of my bishop, and the guidance of my priest and
my godmother, I am ready to start publishing here on Gospel Desk to reach a
wider audience.

#### Themes

My purpose with Gospel Desk is to participate in the life of the Orthodox
Church, both within and beyond my parish. Having read and studied the Bible for
decades as an Anglican, it has been wonderful these past few years to begin to
inhabit the Gospel in the Church, to explore the foothills of the “butter
mountain,” to acquire in small and growing measure the mind of the Fathers. I
am working through a reading plan, which I aim to say more about in [a future
post](https://github.com/gospeldesk/www.gospeldesk.org/issues/29). I intend to
write about what I find along the way, both questions and observations.

I hope that what I write will edify, building up the Church. I’m not here as an
academic exercise. I want to study with due rigor, yet I want my reading and
writing to be a gift I receive from, and offer back to, God and His Church. Not
because you or God need my amateur scholarship, but because I find a small sum
in my hand, and I want to deposit it with you so that I can at least return it
with interest. “[I]t is the conscience of the offerer that sanctifies the
sacrifice when it is pure, and thus moves God to accept the offering as from a
friend” (St. Irenaeus, Against Heresies, 4.16.4). May God in His mercy purify
my conscience and grant it me to bring Him an offering.

I am motivated by the Great Commission. I want to see the Church thrive and
grow. I am encouraged by my bishop, my priest, my godmother, and my friends. I
trust that God will use what is worthwhile in my efforts to bear fruit, and
that what is unworthy will be corrected and/or forgotten. I thank you for
reading, and I welcome your [feedback](mailto:chad@zetaweb.com). Glory to Jesus
Christ!

#### P.S.

Yes, there is an actual desk, commissioned from a local artist friend.
