---
heading: St. Veronica
subheading: The Woman with a Flow of Blood
html_title_sep: ","
image: /the-faithful-servants/st-veronica/st-veronica.thumb.jpg
image_alt: an icon of St. Veronica
---

<a href="st-veronica.jpg">
  <img src="st-veronica.small.jpg" alt="St. Veronica, the woman with a flow of blood">
</a>
<div class="caption">From the hand of <a
href="http://ikona-skiniya.com/">Ekaterina Daineko</a>.</div>


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 5:25-34

A certain woman, who had an issue of blood for twelve years, and had suffered
many things by many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no
better, but rather grew worse, having heard the things concerning Jesus, came
up behind him in the crowd, and touched his clothes. For she said, <u
class="blue">If I just touch his clothes, I will be made well.</u> Immediately
the flow of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was
healed of her affliction.

Immediately Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power had gone out from him,
turned around in the crowd, and asked, Who touched my clothes?

His disciples said to him, You see the multitude pressing against you, and you
say, Who touched me?

He looked around to see her who had done this thing. But the woman, fearing and
trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him,
and told him all the truth.

He said to her, <u>Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be
cured of your disease.</u>


##### Matthew 9:20-22

Behold, a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years came behind him, and
touched the fringe of his garment, for she said within herself, <u
class="blue">If I just touch his garment, I will be made well.</u>

But Jesus, turning around and seeing her, said, <u>Daughter, cheer up! Your
faith has made you well.</u> And the woman was made well from that hour.


##### Luke 8:42-48

But as he went, the multitudes pressed against him. A woman who had a flow of
blood for twelve years, who had spent all her living on physicians, and could
not be healed by any, came behind him, and touched the fringe of his cloak, and
immediately the flow of her blood stopped. Jesus said, Who touched me?

When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, Master, the multitudes press
and jostle you, and you say, Who touched me?

But Jesus said, Someone did touch me, for I perceived that power has gone out
of me. When the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and
falling down before him declared to him in the presence of all the people the
reason why she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately. He said to
her, <u>Daughter, cheer up. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace.</u>


#### In the Synaxarion

##### July 12. The Memory of Saint VERONICA with the Issue of Blood, who was healed by Christ and who died in peace.<sup>†</sup>

Saint Veronica came from Caesarea in Philippi (Paneas). She was healed by our
Lord Jesus Christ of a flux of blood which had afficted her for long years
(Matt. 9.20). In thanksgiving, she had a bronze statue struck, which
represented Christ stretching out His hand to a woman kneeling before him. At
His feet on the plinth, where this inscription was written: "To God, Saviour of
the world," a plant grew that was able to heal all sicknesses. Veronica placed
this statue in front of her house, so that all who passed by might venerate it
and keep present in their hearts the memory of its Model, the
God-Man.<sup>‡</sup> Having passed the rest of her life in holiness and in a
manner pleasing to God, she fell asleep in peace, to rejoice before the Face of
the Lord forever.

<p class="note">† According to a Latin tradition, Saint Veronica was the woman
who dried the Lord's bloodstained Face as He carried His Cross to Golgotha. The
Lord's appearance remained imprinted on the linen, which thus became considered
to be one of the images 'not made with hands'. But, according to an ancient
apocryphal writing, <cite>The Acts of Pilate</cite>, Veronica (Berenice) was
rather the woman with the issue of blood, who, possessing a portrait of Christ,
presented it to Emperor Tiberius in Rome. On his death, the precious portrait
was given to St Clement.</p>

<p class="note">‡ Cf. Eusebius of Caesarea: <cite>Eccles. Hist.</cite> VIL, 18.
It is perhaps a unique example of the veneration of a statue in the Orthodox
tradition. This effigy of Christ was destroyed, on the orders of Julian the
Apostate during his attempt to revive paganism (361); cf. Sozomen:
<cite>Eccles.  Hist.</cite> V, 21.</p>
