---
heading: St. Peter
subheading: the blessed
html_title_sep: ","
---


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 8:27-33

Jesus went out, with his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea Philippi. On
the way he asked his disciples, Who do men say that I am?

They told him, John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, but others: one of the
prophets.

He said to them, But who do you say that I am?

Peter answered, You are the Christ.

He commanded them that they should tell no one about him. He began to teach
them that the Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the
elders, the chief priests, and the scribes, and be killed, and after three days
rise again. He spoke to them openly. Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.
But he, turning around, and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, and said, Get
behind me, Satan! For you have in mind not the things of God, but the things of
men.


##### Matthew 16:13-23

Now when Jesus came into the parts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his
disciples, saying, Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?

They said, Some say John the Baptist, some, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or
one of the prophets.

He said to them, But who do you say that I am?

Simon Peter answered, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.

Jesus answered him, **Blessed are you, Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood
has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. I also tell you
that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my assembly, and the gates of
Hades will not prevail against it. I will give to you the keys of the Kingdom
of Heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will have been bound in heaven, and
whatever you release on earth will have been released in heaven.** Then he
commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the
Christ. From that time, Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to
Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders, chief priests, and scribes,
and be killed, and the third day be raised up. 

Peter took him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you,
Lord! This will never be done to you.

But he turned, and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan! You are a stumbling
block to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the
things of men.


##### Luke 9:18-22

It happened, as he was praying alone, that the disciples were with him, and he
asked them, Who do the multitudes say that I am?

They answered, John the Baptist, but others say, Elijah, and others, that one
of the old prophets is risen again.

He said to them, But who do you say that I am?

Peter answered, The Christ of God.

But he warned them, and commanded them to tell this to no one, saying, The Son
of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders, chief priests,
and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up.


##### John 6:66-69

At this, many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him. Jesus
said therefore to the twelve, You donâ€™t also want to go away, do you?

Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words of
eternal life. We have come to believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son
of the living God.
