---
heading: The Wise Scribe
subheading: Anonymous
html_title_sep: "("
---


#### In the Gospels

##### Mark 12:28-34

One of the scribes came, and heard them questioning together. Knowing that he
had answered them well, he asked him, Which commandment is the greatest of all?

Jesus answered, The greatest is, Hear, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is
one: you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your
soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength. This is the first
commandment. The second is like this, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
There is no other commandment greater than these.

The scribe said to him, <u>Truly, teacher, you have said well that he is one,
and there is none other but he, and to love him with all the heart, and with
all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to
love his neighbor as himself, is more important than all whole burnt offerings
and sacrifices.</u>

When Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, **You are not far from
the Kingdom of God.**


##### Matthew 22:33-40

When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. But the
Pharisees, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered
themselves together. One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him.
Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?

Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with
all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment.
A second likewise is this, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. The whole
law and the prophets depend on these two commandments.


##### Luke 10:25-37

Behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, Teacher, what shall I
do to inherit eternal life?

He said to him, What is written in the law? How do you read it?

He answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all
your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbor as
yourself.

He said to him, **You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live.**

But he, desiring to justify himself, asked Jesus, Who is my neighbor?

Jesus answered, A certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he
fell among robbers, who both stripped him and beat him, and departed, leaving
him half dead. By chance a certain priest was going down that way. When he saw
him, he passed by on the other side. In the same way a Levite also, when he
came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other side. But a certain
Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he saw him, he was moved
with compassion, came to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine.
He set him on his own animal, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
On the next day, when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to
the host, and said to him, Take care of him. Whatever you spend beyond that, I
will repay you when I return. Now which of these three do you think seemed to
be a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?

He said, He who showed mercy on him.

Then Jesus said to him, Go and do likewise.
